---
layout: post
title: "what even is jekyll"
date: 2013-06-01 10:32 PM
category: programming
beverage: seltzer
---

### this is a draft

#### todos

* mention octopress

[The new Jekyll site](http://jekyllrb.com) is pretty awesome. It's beautifully designed and has a ton of great documentation. I referenced it a ton while building this site, which is deployed on Github Pages.

I feel like I can still help demystify some stuff though. Like what *IS* Jekyll? How does it work and what do you need to know to use it?

The Jekyll program itself is written in Ruby, but you don't need to know Ruby to work with Jekyll. You just need to be okay with the idea of Ruby code generating your blog. In fact, if you go in knowing some Ruby, you might find yourself confused by some things like I was.

You do need to be comfortable in your Terminal, because you need to use a few commands to install Jekyll and then generate and re-generate your site. I learned to use the Terminal by reading [this free online book](http://cli.learncodethehardway.org/book/) and it's not that bad.

It's a way to make a static website like a blog. Because it makes a static site, if you want to build something with Jekyll, you'll need to be comfortable with HTML, CSS, and *maybe* JavaScript if you want. Those are the files that will comprise your site, and once they're generated, they don't change. They're static. OK, so what else?

Jekyll wants some kind of markup language. Every markup file, be it Markdown, Textile, or even pure, hardcoded HTML, is expected to have some ["YAML frontmatter"](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/) at the top so the Jekyll program knows what to do with it. You're supplying some key variables like date published, title, and categories, which are used in the templates (more on those later). You don't need to specify what kind of markup file it is, it will infer based on the file extension (eg, `2013-06-01-my-great-post.md` will be converted from Markdown to HTML whereas the same with a `.html` file extension would just be passed along through; it's smart enough to know that some people use `.md` and others use `.markdown` and to just be chill about it). Something I didn't realize: it's not just the blog posts that need YAML front matter, it's pretty much every markup file, including the home `index.html`, the feed xml file, any non-post-pages, everything.

So let's talk about the templating engine. Knowing Jekyll is a Ruby project, and having done some Ruby web development, I made the mistake of assuming Jekyll would follow Ruby conventions that I was familiar with (something like Haml or ERB or Slim), but it kind of doesn't. What it uses is [Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/), a templating system developed by Shopify. Like Jekyll, it's written in Ruby and distributed as a gem, so it bundles along well. Once I adjusted my expectations, I found it easy to work with. When you initialize a new Jekyll site (with `jekyll new my_great_blog`), it gives you this `index.html` file to be your barebones homepage:

{% gist 5692225 %}

Alright so clearly it's mostly HTML, and the file extension is `.html`, but there's a lot in there that's not valid HTML and would confuse your browser if opened directly. Which is fine, because that's not what we're going to do. This is what a Liquid template looks like. If you're looking for Ruby, you'll be rebuffed by this. I have no idea where `endfor` comes from and the double curly braces and dot notation are [very JavaScript-y](http://handlebarsjs.com/). So learn to love Liquid, I guess.

This file is not a complete web page. It has no doctype or `<head>` or `<body>` tags. It's a partial. The file that has the rest of it is in `_layouts/default.html` and the line `layout: default` in this file tells Jekyll to compile this, then insert it into that. You can define more layouts but you may not have to. The other layout that comes with Jekyll is `_layouts/post.html` which is actually also a partial. When you write a blog post, it has `layout: post` in the YAML, so the compiled post is sent to `_layouts/post.html`, which has `layout: default` in the header, so it does a few things then passes the ball along to its final stop. It's like a cheap Russian nesting doll with only three dolls.

You might wonder about `site` which seems to be a variable that contains the posts. What else does it contain? `site` is like a big global variable that has all of your site's settings. You can add arbitrary keys to it by editing the `_config.yml` file. When you iterate over `site.posts`, you're working with post objects, which have keys of their own, which are found in their YAML frontmatter. Some keys, like "date" and "title" are pretty normal and expected by the default post template. But again, you can add some arbitrary key value pairs if you want, and they'll be available in your template. Maybe a "mood" value, livejournal-style.

Using Jekyll often means using Git, especially if you're deploying to Github Pages. This was another point of confusion for me. I didn't immediately understand the relationship between Git, Github, and Jekyll. When you run `jekyll build` or `jekyll serve` or (for me, most commonly) `jekyll serve -w --drafts`, it creates or replaces a directory (folder) called `_site` which contains the compiled, static version of your site. *BUT*, I thought, *if I generate my site, commit those static files to GitHub, then later delete a post, re-generate that static site, commit and push all of the new files to GitHub, won't that post still be there if I forget to run `git rm` on that file???* Luckily, that convoluted thought was completely misguided! You see, when you first create a brand new Jekyll site, it comes with a `.gitignore` file (which tells Git not to even *think* about looking at the files or directories listed within) and Jekyll instructs Git to ignore the `_sites` directory.

OK. HUH? So if you never push the compiled files, how the hell does GitHub Pages know what to display? Okay so maybe this was obvious to everyone but me, but GitHub knows what it's doing. And it especially knows what it's doing with regard to Jekyll, which was created by one of the GitHub founders, Tom Preston-Werner. That's the key. What's kind of fascinating is that *every* site on GitHub Pages runs through Jekyll, whether it uses any templates or not. **You don't push the compiled site to GitHub, GitHub compiles it for you**. If it's a static site in the first place, that compilation is probably a bit faster.

So anyway I am coming around on Jekyll. It's definitely better than [my crappy blog engine](http://github.com/maxjacobson/beefsteak). I love that it's truly static (mine's not, even though it uses Markdown files instead of a database). And it's very flexible and it's easy to publish it. I'll re-read and clarify this later. Peace! 