---
title: selecta
date: 2014-05-05 23:57

---

One of my favorite things about my vim setup is the way I open files. For a little while I used [ctrlp][] and then I switched to [Gary Bernhardt's selecta][] script.

[ctrlp]: https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim
[Gary Bernhardt's selecta]: https://github.com/garybernhardt/selecta

selecta is cool in part because of how it's designed to be more than a vim plugin, although that's mainly what I use it for. The readme gives a few examples of how else it could be used and other people [come up with weirder stuff](https://twitter.com/JAH2488/status/459519248713666560).

Also cool is the means of distribution. Recently [someone added it as a homebrew formula](https://github.com/garybernhardt/selecta/issues/28), making it easy to install and keep it up-to-date on a Mac, but until then, the recommended move was to download a raw ruby script, make it executable, and put it on your PATH, and then I guess hope to remember to update it occasionally. If you want to use it in vim, you can copy and paste a vimscript function from the readme into your vimrc.

Here's the code from the readme:

```vim
" Run a given vim command on the results of fuzzy selecting from a given shell
" command. See usage below.
function! SelectaCommand(choice_command, selecta_args, vim_command)
  try
    silent let selection = system(a:choice_command . " | selecta " . a:selecta_args)
  catch /Vim:Interrupt/
    " Swallow the ^C so that the redraw below happens; otherwise there will be
    " leftovers from selecta on the screen
    redraw!
    return
  endtry
  redraw!
  exec a:vim_command . " " . selection
endfunction

" Find all files in all non-dot directories starting in the working directory.
" Fuzzy select one of those. Open the selected file with :e.
nnoremap <leader>f :call SelectaCommand("find * -type f", "", ":e")<cr>
```

I made one change, which was to use ctrl+p instead of leader+f, because I'd trained my fingers on ctrl+p and didn't have the reserves of peace & discipline to consider changing. Other than that I left it as-is, until today.

I wanted to edit my `.gitignore` file, and noticed that it wasn't opening. Not a big deal, I wrote `:e .gitignore` and survived.

The comment says it opens all files in all non-dot directories. It's kind of true but not exactly, as it ignores dotfiles regardless of their location. I definitely want it to ignore files in dot directories (`.git` and `.sass-cache` come to mind), but I don't want it to ignore most dotfiles.

selecta works like this: you pipe some list of information into it, it breaks it apart, lets you *select* one line from the list, and then pipes that selection out to the next command. This vim plugin runs the bash command `find * -type f`, which prints the list of non-dot files (`-type f` excludes directories, `*` excludes dots) and then pipes it to the vim edit command `:e`.

Since setting this up months ago I've learned and used the `find` command a few times but had no idea it was powering my fuzzy opener thing! Something opaque opened up a little. So I edited that last part like this:

```vim
" Find all files and all non-dot directories
" starting in the working directory
" and edit the chosen thing
nnoremap <c-p> :call SelectaCommand("find . -not -path './.*/*'", "", ":e")<cr>
```

The main changes:

* dotfiles now show up, so I have easier access to files like `.gitignore` and `.travis.yml`
* *directories* now show up, so I can jump directly to specific directories in netrw
* now there's a leading `./` in the list of options because `find *` and `find .` have a different output?

I made a [before][] and [after][] gif.

[before]: /img/selecta-before.gif
[after]: /img/selecta-after.gif

I think I like this! But actually what if it sorted the files by last modified date?
