---
title: Brewfile
date: 2023-01-23 23:25
category: personal computing
---

I recently learned about [Homebrew Bundle](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-bundle), which seems to come installed when you install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), the unofficial package manager for macOS.

I had seen a `Brewfile` occasionally, while lurking on people's dotfiles repos, but I didn't quite know what it was, and assumed it was some janky third party thing.

But no, it's an official part of homebrew[^1], and it's actually quite nice and easy to use.
Here's how I set it up in [my dotfiles repo](https://github.com/maxjacobson/dotfiles).

[^1]: I'm sure there are some who would argue that homebrew itself is a janky third party thing but I don't have time for them.

First, I added a file called `Brewfile` in the root of my dotfiles which looks like this:

```ruby
brew "bat" # cat but with syntax highlighting
brew "cloc" # count lines of code
brew "emacs" # text editor that I have always meant to learn but never actually got around to
brew "fd" # find replacement
```

There's more in there, but you get the gist.

I use [rcm](https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm) to manage my dotfiles, so I can trust that when I run `rcup`, it will create a symlink at `~/.Brewfile` which points to this file.

Then, all I need to do is run `brew bundle --no-lock --global` and Homebrew Bundle will look in exactly that location (`~/.Brewfile`) and install the packages listed there.

Additionally, rcm has a great feature called [hooks](https://thoughtbot.github.io/rcm/rcup.1.html#DIRECTORY_LAYOUT), where it will invoke some custom scripts before or after linking all your dotfiles.
I decided to add a hook that will automatically run that command after it links the files.
It's pretty easy, I just created a file called `hooks/post-up/brew-bundle` that looks like this:

```shell
#!/bin/bash

set -ex

brew bundle --no-lock --global
```

Now I can trust that every time I run `rcup`, I'll install all of the packages listed in that file.
I sync these dotfiles to two macOS computers (a desktop and a laptop) and so it's very likely that I'll add a package on one machine and then auto-install it on another.

Nice!

Shout out to Noah Portes Chaikin, [whose dotfiles](https://github.com/nporteschaikin/dotfiles/blob/202906146c3e74560e2489201014a1ed4495c78a/bin/setup.sh#L17) I was lurking on which inspired me to try this.
