---
title: xargs
date: 2023-01-16 00:43
category: programming
---

This is a quick tribute to and summary of `xargs`, the glue that holds together most of my shell scripts.

Imagine you have a file called `fruits.txt`:

```
$ cat fruits.txt
apples.txt
oranges.txt
bananas.txt
```

It's a file with fruits all listed out on separate lines.
`xargs` lets you squash that list down into a single line:

```
$ cat fruits.txt | xargs
apples.txt oranges.txt bananas.txt
```

What it's doing is taking a list of things and turning them into arguments.

What do I mean by "arguments"?
Let's look at this example...

```
$ rm apples.txt oranges.txt bananas.txt
```

In that statement, we're passing three _arguments_ to the `rm` command, which will remove the files.
In order to pass multiple file names to `rm`, they need to be written as arguments, meaning they're all on one line and separated by spaces.

So... what if we have a `fruits.txt` that contains a list of filenames, and we want to execute the `rm` program, and pass it that list of files as arguments?

We can do it like this:

```
$ cat fruits.txt | xargs rm
```

In English, you might read this as "Take the contents of `fruits.txt`, turn that into arguments, and then execute the `rm` command with those arguments".

This kind of problem comes up all the time when writing shell scripts.
For me, it comes up most often when I'm writing one liners that I'm executing at the command line.
Here are a few real examples I found in my shell history:

```
$ git ls-files | grep -E "\.(rb|jbuilder|ru)$" | xargs rubyfmt --write
```

In other words: "Find all of the ruby files in my git repository and format them with [rubyfmt](https://github.com/fables-tales/rubyfmt)."

```
$ git ls-files app/assets/javascripts/checkout | grep -E "\.js$" | xargs code
```

In other words: "Find all of the JavaScript files in a particular folder of my git repository and open them in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line)."

```
$ git ls-files | grep "test.jsx" | xargs grep -l  enzyme | xargs rm
```

(This one has a double `xargs` 👀)

In other words: "Find all of the react tests in my git repository and then search _just those files_ for the word enzyme, and then print out the list of those file names, and then pass them as arguments to the `rm` command.

That last example is a pretty good category of problem that `xargs` solves.
I often search through a codebase to find source code that matches a pattern.
It's easy enough to do that with a simple `grep` (or the search in your preferred editor).
But I occasionally want to narrow down the search to a subset of files, and that's not always easy to do with a single statement.

For example, I might want to search for "Find me everywhere in this codebase that contains the string `FOO` but narrowed down to files that happen to also contain the string `BAR`".
That's easy enough to achieve once you're comfortable with `xargs`:

```
$ grep -lr BAR . | xargs grep FOO
./app/models/human.rb:    puts FOO.inspect
```

Note: in my day-to-day life, I'm generally using [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep), not grep, but I wanted to keep the examples simple by using more standard things.
But once you're using ripgrep, the command gets a bit simpler and faster too:

```
$ rg -l BAR | xargs rg FOO
app/models/human.rb
22:    puts FOO.inspect
```

All right, that's all I got.
Have fun.
